{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 DUCKDB PARQUET EXTENSION USER GUIDE\par
March 24, 2025\par
For non-developers using the extension in Qlik Cloud\par
1. Introduction\par
The DuckDB Parquet Extension lets you bring public Parquet, CSV, or JSON files into Qlik Cloud, explore them with a powerful in-browser SQL engine (DuckDB), and view the results in an interactive table. It\rquote s designed to make data exploration easy and fast, with features like filtering, pivoting, and custom queries\f1\emdash all without needing to write code.\par
Key Features\par
Load data from public Parquet, CSV, or JSON files using a URL.  \par
Filter data with Qlik selections or a search box.  \par
Create pivot tables to summarize data (like Excel PivotTables).  \par
Run your own SQL queries directly in the search box.  \par
Paginate results and set how many rows to show.  \par
Refresh data instantly with a \ldblquote Refresh Data\rdblquote  button.  \par
See stats like total records, filtered records, and unmatched records.  \par
Customize the look of the table (colors, borders, etc.) in the properties panel.  \par
Dedicated to Stuart Wannop, a Qlik Champion, with editable footer text.\par
\par
2. Installation\par
Get the Extension:  \par
Ask your administrator for the extension ZIP file or download it from where it\rquote s shared (e.g., a repository or email).\par
Upload to Qlik Cloud:  \par
Log in to Qlik Cloud.  \par
Go to the Management Console (usually under your profile or settings).  \par
Find Extensions, click Add, and upload the ZIP file.\par
\par
Add to a Sheet:  \par
Open a Qlik app and go to a sheet.  \par
Click Edit Sheet.  \par
In the left panel, under Custom Objects, find \ldblquote DuckDB Parquet Extension.\rdblquote   \par
Drag it onto your sheet.\par
\par
3. Configuration\par
Set up the extension using the Properties Panel on the right side of Qlik Cloud when editing a sheet. Here\rquote s what you can adjust:\par
3.1 Data Source\par
Data Files:  \par
Click Add to enter a file.  \par
F\f0\lang2057 i\f1\lang9 le URL: Paste the full URL to your public file (e.g., {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://example.com/data.parquet }}{\fldrslt{https://example.com/data.parquet\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22 ).  \par
File Type: Pick Parquet, CSV, JSON, or Arrow from the dropdown (default: Parquet).  \par
File Name (optional): Give the file a name, or leave blank to use the URL\rquote s name.  \par
Add more files if needed by clicking Add again.\par
\par
Show Filtered Record Count: Check this box to show how many records match your filters (default: On).\par
\par
3.2 Pagination\par
Rows per Page: Choose how many rows to show per page (default: 25).\par
\par
3.3 Settings\par
Query Timeout (ms): How long the extension waits for data (default: 60000 ms = 1 minute).  \par
Max RAM (GB): Set memory for processing (default: 4 GB).  \par
Max Pivot Fields: How many columns you can pivot (default: 3).  \par
Sort Scope: Choose \ldblquote Selected Records\rdblquote  (sorts only what\rquote s shown) or \ldblquote Entire Table\rdblquote  (sorts all data, default: Selected Records).\par
\par
3.4 Styles\par
Make the table look how you want:  \par
Container Padding: Space around the table (default: 10px).  \par
K\f0\lang2057 P\f1\lang9 I Margin Bottom: Space below stats (default: 10px).  \par
KPI Font Weight: Boldness of stats text (default: bold).  \par
KPI Color: Color of stats text (default: #333, a dark gray).  \par
Table Max Height: How tall the table can get (default: 600px).  \par
Table Max Width: How wide the table can be (default: 100%).  \par
Table Border: Line around the table (default: 1px solid #ccc).  \par
Header Border: Line around table headers (default: 1px solid black).  \par
Header Padding: Space inside headers (default: 8px).  \par
Header Background: Header color (default: #f5f5f5, light gray).  \par
Cell Border: Line around cells (default: 1px solid black).  \par
Cell Padding: Space inside cells (default: 8px).  \par
Button Margin Top: Space above buttons (default: 10px).  \par
Button Border: Line around buttons (default: 1px solid black).  \par
Bold First Pivot Count: Check to make the first pivot count bold (default: On).\par
\par
3.5 Field Mappings\par
Connect Qlik fields to your file\rquote s columns for filtering:  \par
Click Add Mapping.  \par
Qlik Field Name: Type a field name from your Qlik app (e.g., \ldblquote Region\rdblquote ).  \par
Data Column Name: Type the matching column name from your file (e.g., \ldblquote region_name\rdblquote ).  \par
Add more mappings as needed.\par
\par
3.6 Copyright & Dedication\par
Edit the text at the bottom of the table:  \par
Tribute: Default: \ldblquote This Qlik Extension is shared in memory of Stuart Wannop.\rdblquote   \par
Description: Default: \ldblquote A Qlik Champion who would have enjoyed seeing this type of embedded object.\rdblquote   \par
Disclaimer: Default: \ldblquote Use of this extension is entirely at your own risk; no warranties are implied or inferred.\rdblquote\par
\par
4. Usage\par
Add the Extension: Drag it onto a sheet in your Qlik app.  \par
Set It Up: Fill in the properties (at least the file URL and any field mappings).  \par
Interact with It:  \par
Refresh Data Button: Click to reload the latest data from your file.  \par
Add Pivot Button: Click to add a column for pivoting (like grouping in Excel). Pick a column from the dropdown.  \par
Clear Button: Click to reset pivots and searches.  \par
Search Box:  \par
Type a word and press Enter to search mapped columns.  \par
Or type a SQL query (e.g., SELECT * FROM all_data WHERE sales > 100) and press Enter to run it.\par
Table Headers: Click a header to sort (click again to reverse).  \par
Next/Back Buttons: Move through pages of results (only shown without pivots).  \par
Qlik Selections: Select values in mapped Qlik fields to filter the table.\par
View Results:  \par
See stats like \ldblquote Total Records\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Last Refreshed\rdblquote  at the top.  \par
If filtered, see \ldblquote Selected Records\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Unmatched Records\rdblquote  too.  \par
The table shows your data, with pivot views if you added them.\par
\par
5. Troubleshooting\par
\ldblquote Error loading data\rdblquote  Message:  \par
Check your file URL is correct and works in a browser.  \par
Make sure it\rquote s a valid Parquet, CSV, or JSON file.  \par
Ensure the URL is public (no login needed).\par
Table Not Showing:  \par
Verify field mappings match your file\rquote s column names (they\rquote re case-sensitive).  \par
Check if the file has data\emdash empty files show \ldblquote No matching records found.\rdblquote\par
\par
Slow Loading:  \par
Lower the \ldblquote Rows per Page\rdblquote  in the properties.  \par
Use a smaller file if possible.\par
Pivot Not Working:  \par
Ensure you picked a column from the dropdown after clicking \ldblquote Add Pivot.\rdblquote   \par
Check your file has data for that column.\par
Need Help?: Ask your administrator to check the browser console (F12 > Console tab) for error messages.\par
\par
6. Tips for Non-Developers\par
Try Simple SQL: If you want to experiment, type something like SELECT column_name FROM all_data in the search box to see just that column.  \par
\par
Pivot Like Excel: Use \ldblquote Add Pivot\rdblquote  to group data (e.g., by region, then by year) and see counts automatically.  \par
Refresh Often: If your file updates, hit \ldblquote Refresh Data\rdblquote  to get the latest version.  \par
Keep It Simple: Start with one file and a few mappings to get comfortable.\par
\par
7. Technical Notes\par
What It Uses:  \par
\f0\lang2057 D\f1\lang9 uckDB WASM: A fast tool that runs SQL in your browser.  \par
Apache Arrow: Helps process data quickly.\par
Browser Support: Works in Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and Safari (needs WebAssembly, which they all have).  \par
Safety: Only use URLs you trust, as the data loads in your browser.\par
\par
8. Copyright\f0\lang2057  (feel free to change)\f1\lang9\par
Shown at the bottom of the table (editable in properties):\par
\ldblquote This Qlik Extension is shared in memory of Stuart Wannop, A Qlik Champion who would have enjoyed seeing this type of embedded object. Built with DuckDB WASM and Apache Arrow. Use of this extension is entirely at your own risk; no warranties are implied or inferred.\rdblquote\par
Notes on Changes (March 24, 2025)\par
Date: Updated to March 24, 2025, to match today.  \par
Features: Added pivot tables, SQL queries, and multi-file support (Parquet, CSV, JSON).  \par
Buttons: Changed \ldblquote Live\rdblquote  to \ldblquote Refresh Data,\rdblquote  added \ldblquote Add Pivot\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Clear.\rdblquote   \par
Settings: New options like Max RAM, Max Pivot Fields, and Sort Scope.  \par
Styles: Expanded with bold pivot counts and more customization.  \par
Troubleshooting: Updated for new features and simplified for non-technical users.  \par
Tips: Added to help non-developers get started easily.\par
This guide is designed to be approachable, with step-by-step instructions and no technical jargon where possible\f0\par
}
 